---
title: "Faces"
date: 2026-04-16
---

Once a close friend of Friedrich Nietzsche, once a man that walked the earth, and once a composer of artful works like the “Ride of the Valkyries,” Richard Wagner is now buried in the Garden of Haus Wahnfried in a wooden coffin of German manufacturing—which is to say, a well-made coffin.

He is also my favorite composer. As such, I am naming the following architecture in his honor.

The goal of this proposed architecture is, in its simplest form, to draw out the laden accuracy of coding agents. The pipeline is thus: decomposition → orchestration → continuity and composition. I will break all of these down, starting with the first.

The layer of decomposition is the model’s original response to user input. Suppose a user asks for a simple website for his business. The model then takes that task, breaks it apart or decomposes it into different domains, such as frontend, backend, or certain specialized APIs.

The next layer is orchestration. Orchestration is when Wagner assigns each decomposed task to certain “faces” or specialists in that domain, specialists which have been seeded and trained on a variety of code examples from which they may draw upon in their response. These faces build each part of the codebase bit-by-bit, assembling their respective domains on instructions from the decomposition layer.

When orchestration is over, a scanning of the codebase is performed for optimal continuity. This works by having numerous checks run by the “Valkyries,” a militia of scanners named after Wagner’s famous composition. These Valkyries carry out these final checks, cross-validating imports and function returns to ensure minimal errors. Even in large scale projects with dozens of files and the utilization of various services via API calls, the presence of the Valkyries enforced an accuracy rate of 100% across the entire codebase, meaning all errors were flagged and fixed.

The final layer of the pipeline is composition. This layer is the simplest: after the Valkyries are finished, the files are packaged and shipped to the user for implementation.

Perhaps the greatest power available to Wagner is scalability. When assigning faces, if a necessary domain is absent, that domain is created and seeded automatically—Wagner therefore experiences rapid, federalized growth. (Growth, as referenced here, refers to the ability for Wagner to output flawless code across domains.) I suspect Wagner’s growth will mimic the log function, which is to say it will grow most rapidly in the beginning before reaching a plateau where only minimal increases in growth may be expected.

If this interests you, try Wagner at: https://wagner.razzyshmazzy.com