---
title: "Ex Mors"
date: 2026-01-20
---

Have you ever died? I assume not. But I’m sure you fear dying.

Lingering beyond time to prey on us, out of sight. Death’s the undeniable underbelly of humanity. We can live our lives, we can love, hate, heal, kill, maim, or torture, but at the end of the day, we become fertilizer for the next generation. We may die on a battlefield, may die in a garden—may even die in space! Nevertheless, death is there, omnipresent, to return us to whence we came.

I think I can be certain in saying death has not won your favor. If it has, you might need a therapist. It’s savage, otherwise curious, studied, undefeated, and most of all, inevitable. It’s death, and it’s everywhere.

But it’s not anywhere.

For my 16 year old mind, at least, death is so far off as to seem impossible. Still, I think of it sometimes, of the future, of what life might make of me, of when death may come—and that knowledge’s impossibility.

A while ago, I watched this interesting video. In it, this guy talked about how cells oxidize every division, and that’s why we grow old, age, and die, much like how a car’s engine oxidizes and slowly dies. You can see the artist in their art, after all, which would explain why the processes of our biological engines, our hearts, are mirrored in our mechanical creations.

What if we could stop that oxidation? Oxygen is inclined to bond to many things, and it is simply too prevalent. After all, it quite literally makes up most of our atmosphere. Basically every organism uses it for life. We breathe it through our lungs; aquatic creatures breathe it by extracting oxygen from water with their gills. Therefore, because of its universal commonality, it can safely be concluded that our usage of oxygen stems from evolutionary factors. I, at least, don’t believe oxygen is the only breathable gas. It just happens to be the most abundant gas on our planet, which is why we evolved to breathe it. That said, what if our planet was full of another gas, instead of oxygen? And I don’t mean in the sense that “oh no everything would die” but rather in the sense of exposure at the earliest level: to pond scum.

I will now propose my theory with absolutely no research, evidence, or empirical analysis—just raw, rational theory. Let your mind fill in the blanks. Focus only on the idea, for I am not learned enough (nor do I have access to a lab) to confirm the nuances.

What if our oldest ancestors had been exposed to a noble gas instead of oxygen? Suppose that noble gas was neon. Perhaps, we may have evolved into a race of creatures with green skin and glow-in-the-dark eyes. Jokes aside, consider that—because it is a noble gas—neon has a stable set of valence electrons. It does not want to bond. Now, suppose the human race evolves once more but under these new conditions: breathing neon instead of oxygen. As our cells divide, neon would not attach itself and bond to, and therefore damage, our cells as oxygen does; rather, it would remain chemically inert, letting our cells divide unmitigated.

And if our cells divide without damage, they do not become worn over time. So, we do not become worn over time. Thus, we have conquered death by old age, the only form of death that has thus far proven absolutely, unavoidably, and inexorably inevitable—that death is now of no consequence.

As a result of this undertaking, we have conquered not only all forms of death, the concept of death, and death itself, but we have turned ourselves against the natural order of things. We have stripped ourselves of any dignity; let Eve’s leaf fall with shame; and we have eaten another fruit from the tree of knowledge. We have become a race of Cains.

Still, our brilliance knows no bounds. Death will not stop us. From our neon birth, we shall stand against the universe, as is our fate and our destiny:—and we will massacre it all. We will answer The Last Question with war; because without the fear of death, there is truly nothing holding back the unyielding spirit of man, and dare I say there is no fiercer spirit, no more justified cause, no higher morality than that which reinforces man’s justifications.

All life has now become infinite. There is no longer any cause for fear, and devoid of fear, there is no cause for any other emotion, because the strength of these comes from the struggle and triumph over fear. Therefore, all the world is dull and colorless. There is no joy, sadness, pleasure, for infinity has chased them all away. In suppressing death, we have suppressed ourselves.

I ask you now to consider: would you even avoid death? Would you resist it given the chance to? Suppress your ideology and answer this honestly. Would you care to live forever?

Consider this poem from Ancient Egypt.

Death is before me today
like health to the sick
like leaving the bedroom after sickness.

Death is before me today
like the odor of myrrh
like sitting under a cloth on a day of wind.

Death is before me today
like the odor of lotus
like sitting down on the shore of drunkenness.

Death is before me today
like the end of the rain
like a man’s home-coming after the wars abroad.

Death is before me today
like the sky when it clears
like a man’s wish to see home after numberless years of captivity.

Circa. 1900 B.C.

Perhaps death is to be feared. That may be its worldly purpose, to give all else meaning. Its existence ensures that one cherishes life, for in its presence, life becomes limited. Recall that a bag of halloween candy, which is limited and finite, tastes far better than if that candy were unlimited.

The Romantics wrote about this in centuries past. Michel de Montaigne articulated it during the Renaissance. The Stoics understood this two millennia ago. Perhaps it is time we accept death as a necessary fear, not something to be done away with, but an end that gives the journey meaning.

After all, humans have always let their rationality vanish regretfully in the face of truth when emotion is present. And I don’t think we’ll stop now—or ever.